>> Start with the
beginner's mind,
forgetting everything you
know about meditation.
Let go of all concepts and
expectations each time you set
and investigate freshly
into this moment.
There is a body here breathing.
Discover it.
Inhabit it with
consciousness and simply feel
the pulsation of
expansion and contraction
throughout the body.
Notice the connections between
body, mind, and breath.
Let go of all
concepts and observe
the raw sensations, the
field of changing phenomena.
Observe the field of change
directly, free of concepts.
The eyes are either
closed or half open,
gazing softly towards the
nose, not focusing on anything.
Widen the aperture of the
mind to observe the expansion
and contraction of the breath
throughout the entire body,
not missing any sensation,
no matter how subtle.
You might be able to observe
the field of expansion
and contraction, penetrating
into every cell of your body,
or you might not.
Just observe reality
as it actually is.
Don't try to make
anything happen or imagine
something that is not there.
If you experience pain,
then observe the pain
without resistance,
without complaining,
without preference.
Maybe there are
challenging feelings
like worry, sadness, anger,
that are present in the body.
Maybe there are
blissful sensations--
joy, peace, love-- or maybe
there's a free flow of energy.
Don't get attached to anything.
Don't judge blissful sensations
as good and painful sensations
as bad.
The practice is to be
equanimous with what is.
The more you cling to any
sensation, thought, or feeling,
the more energy you send
to the egoic structure,
which is nothing more than
a collection of preferences,
attachments to one
thing or another.
Equanimity is what you're
cultivating, being OK
with what is, accepting reality
as it is moment by moment.
Have a complete
experience with whatever
is arising, penetrating to
the subtlest sensory level
possible, letting
go of any concepts,
or stories, or
filtering of the mind.
Come to the inner energy
like a baby to its mother,
surrendered, openhearted,
genuine, innocent.
This inner energy is love.
You surrender
yourself to this love.
Let it move inside of you.
Let it open you.
Let it circulate,
purify you, rewire you.
When you let go of reactions
to pain and pleasure,
when you let go of
preferences and concepts
around the sensations, you
may feel the energy building
at any one of the energy
centers in the body.
For example, you may be
starting to feel a magnetic pull
at the third eye
area in the forehead
and deep inside the head
at the top of the spine
in the pineal area, or
maybe in the heart area,
or in the belly below the navel.
If you feel a magnetic
pull, let your attention
be naturally drawn to that area.
The attention will
naturally be drawn
to areas of increased
energy, increased aliveness.
This aliveness is beyond
pain and pleasure.
This is not the same as
fixating on a particular pain
or pleasure that's arising.
It is choicelessly
letting the mind
be drawn to areas of
inner aliveness, which
may be experienced as waves,
tingling, bubbles, brightness,
openings, lightness or fullness.
You don't need to know what
to do with this inner energy.
Not knowing is the entry point
to letting go of egoic control,
to realizing a level of being
that's beyond the limited mind.
It's about humbling
the limited self,
humbling the knower, which
gives entry into the inner world
into the primordial essence.
Allow yourself to become
completely absorbed
into the energy, letting go of
any sense of inner and outer.
Beyond the subtle
realm of inner energy
is something unfathomable.
When you let go of you,
there is a collapse
of all duality, a collapse
of inner and outer.
Inner and outer, self and
other, subject and object.
These are all created
by the limited mind.
As long as these
dualities exist,
there is an appearance of a
limited me in a separate world.
Notice if your mind is creating
a spatial sense of self.
Where are you?
Are you someone in
a brain looking down
or is it possible to inhabit the
energy directly as awareness?
You can become so intimate
with this field of change
that you disappear
into it or you
could say you wake up as it.
Meditation deepens.
We are actually becoming
aware of the awareness
that is already inherent within
the sensations of the body.
We are becoming
aware of awareness,
the awareness that is inherent
within all changing phenomena.
That presence and that
resonance are not one, not two.
[GONG CHIME]